#summary - Meeting Minutes - 20110729

Group Open Discussion
-----------------------
Let's talk about Gordon's last email (about whether or not to meet in August)

Gordon - mentioned this because has a lot to learn throughout August on coding.

Prashant - a) suggesting to table Google API, continue with just Java, JSPs, MySQL, etc. Then, when we have a program up and running, then we can transform into Google app. b) our focus should be on aligning the team because the people sell the product regardless of how the product is built c) important to produce results instead of letting technologies hold us up from producing something

Deepak - (prashant) do you think our team is de-motivated or just letting the technology create barrier on us producing product

Prashant - de-motivated from technical challenges, takes accountability for this, he could catch us up to speed
What does Gordon and Deepak really want to work in?

Deepak - motivated to start a web company in the next 2-3 years, wanted to get an understanding of how these technologies work, that when he has an idea himself then can implement himself or lean on friends to help implement idea

What is the root cause of our problem?
Deepak - problem was learning curve of technologies
Gordon - problem is not communicating daily about my status especially when I get stuck on coding, lack of focus
Prashant - problem is not seeing any tangible results
Overall - motivation level is sinking because of no real results

Let's meet every Friday for at least an hour of coding. Not worry about whether or not if we have the right language, but just start using a language and build something. After the project is built, then revisit if this is the right language: if so, continue to next project level; if not, transform code into another language and continue.

PHP is proposed (by Deepak). Symphony framework as well.
MySQL is proposed for the database.

MEETING RESULT:
1. By next Friday, Apache-Tomcat Server, Eclipse w/ PHP installed, along with MySQL.
2. Next Friday, come into meeting and begin coding.


= Status Update =
See Open Discussion.

= This Week's Goals // ON HOLD for Open Discussion and Redirection =
*Deepak*
 # come up with task items for July
 # come up with motivation (reward system)
 # provide feedback on Prashant's code
 # remind Gordon/Prashant about Laura's idea

*Gordon*
 # finish Google App Engine web example
 # read Google API
 # make adjustments to the code for GoalsUp (in process of learning Google API)
 # make walkthrough designs (like already have on G-Docs)

*Prashant*
 # update Database Design (with sample data)
 # update basic classes represented as tables, dao (classes interfacing to database) 
 # implement the correct Unit Tests for saving data
 # update design for saving hierarchy (base and user tables)
 # add delete feature to querying

= Last Week's Goals =
Look at meeting minutes from July 29, 2011